Let’s say we want to match every number in a text.
Numbers are made up of
one or more digits concatenated together.
Using our basic regex symbols that would be any digit:
0 or 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9,
concatenated with zero or more of any digit:
0 or 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 star.
Now this is far too long for a busy computer scientist.
Thankfully, we can use some extended regex syntax
to describe this and others using only a few symbols.
In many systems, a list of symbols between square brackets,
like [0,1,2,3,4,5] means “choose one from this list,”
and we can shorten this further to [0-5],
which means “choose any symbol in the range 0 to 5."
But in our example, we want any single digit,
so we can use another code: backslash d (\d).
\d(\d)* is so much shorter now,
but it still matches exactly the same pattern!
In fact we can shorten it even more
by introducing the plus notation.
While A* matches zero or more As,
A+ matches one or more As.
So we can now write our regex formula
that will match any number as (\d)+.
Other common symbols are: the question mark,
which matches an optional occurrence of the symbol;
a number in curly braces, which matches exactly
that number of the previous symbol;
and the period or full stop,
which matches any single character once.
Remember, all of these extended regex symbols
may be pretty fancy, and they shorten things a lot.
But they are really just shortcuts that could be
written longhand using the four basic symbols;
bar, star and the parentheses.